docs/mkdocs/docs/bl733.md, before:

# Beamline 7.3.3 Flows

This page documents the workflows supported by Splash Flows Globus at [ALS Beamline 7.3.3 (SAXS/WAXS/GISAXS)](https://saxswaxs.lbl.gov/user-information).

## Diagrams

### Sequence Diagram
```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    %% Participants
    participant Detector as Detector
    participant FileWatcher as File Watcher (data733)
    participant Dispatcher as Dispatcher [Prefect Worker]
    
    %% Flow 1: new_file_733 Prefect Flow
    participant F1_Data as Flow1: data733
    participant F1_CFS as Flow1: NERSC CFS
    participant F1_SciCat as Flow1: SciCat (Metadata DB)
    
    %% Flow 2: Scheduled HPSS Transfer Prefect Flow
    participant F2_CFS as Flow2: NERSC CFS
    participant F2_HPSS as Flow2: HPSS Tape Archive
    participant F2_SciCat as Flow2: SciCat (Metadata DB)
    
    %% Flow 3: HPC Downstream Analysis Prefect Flow
    participant F3_Data as Flow3: data733
    participant HPC_FS as HPC Filesystem
    participant HPC_Compute as HPC Compute
    
    %% Scheduled Pruning (triggered by all flows)
    participant SPruning as Scheduled Pruning (Prefect Workers)
    participant P_CFS as Prune Target: NERSC CFS
    participant P_Data as Prune Target: data733

    %% Initial Trigger Sequence
    Detector->>FileWatcher: Send Raw Data
    FileWatcher->>Dispatcher: File Watcher Trigger
    Dispatcher->>F1_Data: Start new_file_733 Flow
    Dispatcher->>F2_CFS: Start Scheduled HPSS Transfer Flow
    Dispatcher->>F3_Data: Start HPC Downstream Analysis Flow

    %% Flow 1 interactions
    F1_Data->>F1_CFS: Globus Transfer: Raw Data
    F1_CFS->>F1_SciCat: SciCat Ingestion: Metadata

    %% Flow 2 interactions
    F2_CFS->>F2_HPSS: SFAPI Slurm htar Transfer: Raw Data
    F2_HPSS->>F2_SciCat: SciCat Ingestion: Metadata

    %% Flow 3 interactions
    F3_Data->>HPC_FS: Globus Transfer: Raw Data
    HPC_FS->>HPC_Compute: Transfer Raw Data
    HPC_Compute->>HPC_FS: Return Scratch Data
    HPC_FS->>F3_Data: Globus Transfer: Scratch Data

    %% Scheduled Pruning triggered by flows
    F1_SciCat-->>SPruning: Trigger Pruning
    F2_SciCat-->>SPruning: Trigger Pruning
    F3_Data-->>SPruning: Trigger Pruning

    SPruning->>P_CFS: Prune NERSC CFS
    SPruning->>P_Data: Prune data733
```

### Data Infrastructure Workflows
```mermaid
---
config:
  theme: neo
  layout: elk
  look: neo
---
flowchart LR
 subgraph s1["new_file_733<br>[Prefect Flow]"]
        n20["data733"]
        n21["NERSC CFS"]
        n22@{ label: "SciCat<br style=\"--tw-scale-x:\">[Metadata Database]" }
  end
 subgraph s2["Scheduled HPSS Transfer<br>[Prefect Flow]"]
        n38["NERSC CFS"]
        n39["HPSS Tape Archive"]
        n40["SciCat <br>[Metadata Database]"]
  end
 subgraph s3["HPC Downstream Analysis<br>[Prefect Flow]"]
        n41["data733"]
        n42["HPC<br>Filesystem"]
        n43["HPC<br>Compute"]
  end
    n23["data733"] -- File Watcher --> n24["Dispatcher<br>[Prefect Worker]"]
    n25["Detector"] -- Raw Data --> n23
    n24 --> s1 & s2 & s3
    n20 -- Raw Data [Globus Transfer] --> n21
    n21 -- "<span style=color:>Metadata [SciCat Ingestion]</span>" --> n22
    n32["Scheduled Pruning <br>[Prefect Workers]"] --> n35["NERSC CFS"] & n34["data733"]
    n38 -- Raw Data [SFAPI Slurm htar Transfer] --> n39
    n39 -- "<span style=color:>Metadata [SciCat Ingestion]</span>" --> n40
    s2 --> n32
    s3 --> n32
    s1 --> n32
    n41 -- Raw Data [Globus Transfer] --> n42
    n42 -- Raw Data --> n43
    n43 -- Scratch Data --> n42
    n42 -- Scratch Data [Globus Transfer] --> n41
    n20@{ shape: internal-storage}
    n21@{ shape: disk}
    n22@{ shape: db}
    n38@{ shape: disk}
    n39@{ shape: paper-tape}
    n40@{ shape: db}
    n41@{ shape: internal-storage}
    n42@{ shape: disk}
    n23@{ shape: internal-storage}
    n24@{ shape: rect}
    n25@{ shape: rounded}
    n35@{ shape: disk}
    n34@{ shape: internal-storage}
     n20:::storage
     n20:::Peach
     n21:::Sky
     n22:::Sky
     n38:::Sky
     n39:::storage
     n40:::Sky
     n41:::Peach
     n42:::Sky
     n43:::compute
     n23:::collection
     n23:::storage
     n23:::Peach
     n24:::collection
     n24:::Rose
     n25:::Ash
     n32:::Rose
     n35:::Sky
     n34:::Peach
    classDef collection fill:#D3A6A1, stroke:#D3A6A1, stroke-width:2px, color:#000000
    classDef Rose stroke-width:1px, stroke-dasharray:none, stroke:#FF5978, fill:#FFDFE5, color:#8E2236
    classDef storage fill:#A3C1DA, stroke:#A3C1DA, stroke-width:2px, color:#000000
    classDef Ash stroke-width:1px, stroke-dasharray:none, stroke:#999999, fill:#EEEEEE, color:#000000
    classDef visualization fill:#E8D5A6, stroke:#E8D5A6, stroke-width:2px, color:#000000
    classDef Peach stroke-width:1px, stroke-dasharray:none, stroke:#FBB35A, fill:#FFEFDB, color:#8F632D
    classDef Sky stroke-width:1px, stroke-dasharray:none, stroke:#374D7C, fill:#E2EBFF, color:#374D7C
    classDef compute fill:#A9C0C9, stroke:#A9C0C9, stroke-width:2px, color:#000000
    style s1 stroke:#757575
    style s2 stroke:#757575
    style s3 stroke:#757575

```

## File Watcher

There is a file watcher on the system `data733` that listens for new scans that have finished writing to disk. From there, a Prefect Flow we call `dispatcher` kicks off the downstream steps:
- Copy scans in real time to `NERSC CFS` using Globus Transfer.
- Copy project data to `NERSC HPSS` for long-term storage.
- Analysis on HPC systems (TBD).
- Schedule data pruning from `data733` and `NERSC CFS`.

## Prefect Configuration

### Registered Flows

#### `dispatcher.py`

#### `move.py`

## VM Details

The computing backend runs on a VM in the B15 server room that is managed by ALS IT staff.

**Name**: `flow-saxs-waxs`
**OS**: `Ubuntu 24.04 LTS`

Commit message:

Continuing to develop the 733 flows. Updated docs, added comments indicating next steps, included a create_deployments_733.sh script.

docs/mkdocs/docs/bl733.md, after:

# Beamline 7.3.3 Flows

This page documents the workflows supported by Splash Flows Globus at [ALS Beamline 7.3.3 (SAXS/WAXS/GISAXS)](https://saxswaxs.lbl.gov/user-information).

## Diagrams

### Sequence Diagram
```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    %% Participants
    participant Detector as Detector
    participant FileWatcher as File Watcher (data733)
    participant Dispatcher as Dispatcher [Prefect Worker]
    
    %% Flow 1: new_file_733 Prefect Flow
    participant F1_Data as Flow1: data733
    participant F1_CFS as Flow1: NERSC CFS
    participant F1_SciCat as Flow1: SciCat (Metadata DB)
    
    %% Flow 2: Scheduled HPSS Transfer Prefect Flow
    participant F2_CFS as Flow2: NERSC CFS
    participant F2_HPSS as Flow2: HPSS Tape Archive
    participant F2_SciCat as Flow2: SciCat (Metadata DB)
    
    %% Flow 3: HPC Downstream Analysis Prefect Flow
    participant F3_Data as Flow3: data733
    participant HPC_FS as HPC Filesystem
    participant HPC_Compute as HPC Compute
    
    %% Scheduled Pruning (triggered by all flows)
    participant SPruning as Scheduled Pruning (Prefect Workers)
    participant P_CFS as Prune Target: NERSC CFS
    participant P_Data as Prune Target: data733

    %% Initial Trigger Sequence
    Detector->>FileWatcher: Send Raw Data
    FileWatcher->>Dispatcher: File Watcher Trigger
    Dispatcher->>F1_Data: Start new_file_733 Flow
    Dispatcher->>F2_CFS: Start Scheduled HPSS Transfer Flow
    Dispatcher->>F3_Data: Start HPC Downstream Analysis Flow

    %% Flow 1 interactions
    F1_Data->>F1_CFS: Globus Transfer: Raw Data
    F1_CFS->>F1_SciCat: SciCat Ingestion: Metadata

    %% Flow 2 interactions
    F2_CFS->>F2_HPSS: SFAPI Slurm htar Transfer: Raw Data
    F2_HPSS->>F2_SciCat: SciCat Ingestion: Metadata

    %% Flow 3 interactions
    F3_Data->>HPC_FS: Globus Transfer: Raw Data
    HPC_FS->>HPC_Compute: Transfer Raw Data
    HPC_Compute->>HPC_FS: Return Scratch Data
    HPC_FS->>F3_Data: Globus Transfer: Scratch Data

    %% Scheduled Pruning triggered by flows
    F1_SciCat-->>SPruning: Trigger Pruning
    F2_SciCat-->>SPruning: Trigger Pruning
    F3_Data-->>SPruning: Trigger Pruning

    SPruning->>P_CFS: Prune NERSC CFS
    SPruning->>P_Data: Prune data733
```

### Data Infrastructure Workflows
```mermaid
---
config:
  theme: neo
  layout: elk
  look: neo
---
flowchart LR
 subgraph s1["new_file_733<br>[Prefect Flow]"]
        n20["data733"]
        n21["NERSC CFS"]
        n22@{ label: "SciCat<br style=\"--tw-scale-x:\">[Metadata Database]" }
  end
 subgraph s2["Scheduled HPSS Transfer<br>[Prefect Flow]"]
        n38["NERSC CFS"]
        n39["HPSS Tape Archive"]
        n40["SciCat <br>[Metadata Database]"]
  end
 subgraph s3["HPC Downstream Analysis<br>[Prefect Flow]"]
        n41["data733"]
        n42["HPC<br>Filesystem"]
        n43["HPC<br>Compute"]
  end
    n23["data733"] -- File Watcher --> n24["Dispatcher<br>[Prefect Worker]"]
    n25["Detector"] -- Raw Data --> n23
    n24 --> s1 & s2 & s3
    n20 -- Raw Data [Globus Transfer] --> n21
    n21 -- "<span style=color:>Metadata [SciCat Ingestion]</span>" --> n22
    n32["Scheduled Pruning <br>[Prefect Workers]"] --> n35["NERSC CFS"] & n34["data733"]
    n38 -- Raw Data [SFAPI Slurm htar Transfer] --> n39
    n39 -- "<span style=color:>Metadata [SciCat Ingestion]</span>" --> n40
    s2 --> n32
    s3 --> n32
    s1 --> n32
    n41 -- Raw Data [Globus Transfer] --> n42
    n42 -- Raw Data --> n43
    n43 -- Scratch Data --> n42
    n42 -- Scratch Data [Globus Transfer] --> n41
    n20@{ shape: internal-storage}
    n21@{ shape: disk}
    n22@{ shape: db}
    n38@{ shape: disk}
    n39@{ shape: paper-tape}
    n40@{ shape: db}
    n41@{ shape: internal-storage}
    n42@{ shape: disk}
    n23@{ shape: internal-storage}
    n24@{ shape: rect}
    n25@{ shape: rounded}
    n35@{ shape: disk}
    n34@{ shape: internal-storage}
     n20:::storage
     n20:::Peach
     n21:::Sky
     n22:::Sky
     n38:::Sky
     n39:::storage
     n40:::Sky
     n41:::Peach
     n42:::Sky
     n43:::compute
     n23:::collection
     n23:::storage
     n23:::Peach
     n24:::collection
     n24:::Rose
     n25:::Ash
     n32:::Rose
     n35:::Sky
     n34:::Peach
    classDef collection fill:#D3A6A1, stroke:#D3A6A1, stroke-width:2px, color:#000000
    classDef Rose stroke-width:1px, stroke-dasharray:none, stroke:#FF5978, fill:#FFDFE5, color:#8E2236
    classDef storage fill:#A3C1DA, stroke:#A3C1DA, stroke-width:2px, color:#000000
    classDef Ash stroke-width:1px, stroke-dasharray:none, stroke:#999999, fill:#EEEEEE, color:#000000
    classDef visualization fill:#E8D5A6, stroke:#E8D5A6, stroke-width:2px, color:#000000
    classDef Peach stroke-width:1px, stroke-dasharray:none, stroke:#FBB35A, fill:#FFEFDB, color:#8F632D
    classDef Sky stroke-width:1px, stroke-dasharray:none, stroke:#374D7C, fill:#E2EBFF, color:#374D7C
    classDef compute fill:#A9C0C9, stroke:#A9C0C9, stroke-width:2px, color:#000000
    style s1 stroke:#757575
    style s2 stroke:#757575
    style s3 stroke:#757575

```

## File Watcher

There is a file watcher on the system `data733` that listens for new scans that have finished writing to disk. From there, a Prefect Flow we call `dispatcher` kicks off the downstream steps:
- Copy scans in real time to `NERSC CFS` using Globus Transfer.
- Copy project data to `NERSC HPSS` for long-term storage.
- Analysis on HPC systems (TBD).
- Schedule data pruning from `data733` and `NERSC CFS`.

## Prefect Configuration

### Registered Flows

#### `dispatcher.py`

The Dispatcher Prefect Flow manages the logic for handling the order and execution of data tasks. As as soon as the File Watcher detects that a new file is written, it calls the `dispatcher()` Flow. In this case, the dispatcher handles the synchronous call to `move.py`, with a potential to add additional steps (e.g. scheduling remote HPC analysis code).

#### `move.py`

Flow to process a new file at BL 7.3.3
1. Copy the file from the data733 to NERSC CFS. Ingest file path in SciCat.
2. Schedule pruning from data733.
3. Copy the file from NERSC CFS to NERSC HPSS. Ingest file path in SciCat.
4. Schedule pruning from NERSC CFS.


## VM Details

The computing backend runs on a VM in the B15 server room that is managed by ALS IT staff.

**Name**: `flow-saxs-waxs`
**OS**: `Ubuntu 24.04 LTS`
